# Module Acceptance Criteria - mod-entities-links

## Shared/Common
* [X] Uses Apache 2.0 license
* [X] Module build MUST produce a valid module descriptor
* [X] Module descriptor MUST include interface requirements for all consumed APIs
* [X] Third party dependencies use an Apache 2.0 compatible license
* [X] Installation documentation is included
* [ ] Personal data form is completed, accurate, and provided as `PERSONAL_DATA_DISCLOSURE.md` file
* [X] Sensitive and environment-specific information is not checked into git repository
* [X] Module is written in a language and framework from the [officially approved technologies](https://wiki.folio.org/display/TC/Officially+Supported+Technologies) page
* [X] Module only uses FOLIO interfaces already provided by previously accepted modules _e.g. a UI module cannot be accepted that relies on an interface only provided by a back end module that hasn't been accepted yet_
* [X] ~~Module gracefully handles the absence of third party systems or related configuration~~
* [X] Sonarqube hasn't identified any security issues, major code smells or excessive (>3%) duplication
* [X] Uses [officially supported](https://wiki.folio.org/display/TC/Officially+Supported+Technologies) build tools
* [X] Unit tests have 80% coverage or greater, and are based on [officially approved technologies](https://wiki.folio.org/display/TC/Officially+Supported+Technologies)

## Backend
* [X] Module's repository includes a compliant Module Descriptor
* [X] Environment vars are documented in the ModuleDescriptor
* [X] If a module provides interfaces intended to be consumed by other FOLIO Modules, they must be defined in the Module Descriptor "provides" section
* [X] All API endpoints are documented in RAML or OpenAPI
* [ ] All API endpoints protected with appropriate permissions as per the following guidelines and recommendations, e.g. avoid using `*.all` permissions, all necessary module permissions are assigned, etc.
* [X] ~~Module provides reference data (if applicable), e.g. if there is a controlled vocabulary where the module requires at least one value~~
* [X] If provided, integration (API) tests must be written in an [officially approved technology](https://wiki.folio.org/display/TC/Officially+Supported+Technologies)
* [X] Data is segregated by tenant at the storage layer
* [X] The module doesn't access data in DB schemas other than its own and public
* [ ] The module responds with a tenant's content based on x-okapi-tenant header
* [X] Standard GET `/admin/health` endpoint returning a 200 response
* [ ] High Availability (HA) compliant
* [X] Module only uses infrastructure / platform technologies on the [officially approved technologies](https://wiki.folio.org/display/TC/Officially+Supported+Technologies) list.


## Notes
- Third party dependencies use an Apache 2.0 compatible license
  - Where is the list of compatible licenses?
- Installation documentation is included
  - Documentation must include system requirements. Required version of JDK. Infrastructure and third party service integrations
  - Documentation must include overall design. To highlight module and infrastructure dependencies
  - Documentation must include data model
  - Glossary
  - mvn install doesn't work. Test failure. Tests requires kafka. Documentation should outline steps that need to be executed before running tests
  - Ideal to provide a range of acceptable values. KAFKA_CONSUMER_MAX_POLL_RECORDS. 50 used to be the max it can handle in mod-search
- Personal Data Disclosure
  - PERSONAL_DATA_DISCLOSURE.md is incomplete and looks out of date when compared to the one under mod-users
- Sensitive and environment-specific information is not checked into git repository
  - Better to have the default SYSTEM_USER_PASSWORD removed. Will end up getting used if it is not passed in. Make it mandatory
- Unit tests have 80% coverage or greater [What about classes with really low coverage?](https://sonarcloud.io/code?id=org.folio%3Amod-entities-links&selected=org.folio%3Amod-entities-links%3Asrc%2Fmain%2Fjava%2Forg%2Ffolio%2Fentlinks%2Fdomain%2Fentity%2FInstanceAuthorityLinkingRule.java)
  - Has 89.6% coverage
  - May not be an issue for the class in question as it appears to be an ORM
- Module gracefully handles the absence of third party systems or related configuration
  - No third party system integrations
- Sonarqube hasn't identified any security issues
  - Running OWASP maven plugin highlighted security issues

## Open Questions
-  How do you verify that sensitive and environment specific information is not checked in?
-  Personal data disclosure indicates that this module can derive user's first and last name. How does it do that ?
- If a module provides interfaces intended to be consumed by other FOLIO Modules, they must be defined in the Module Descriptor "provides" section. Seems Obvious  Can it be used without specifying in the module descriptor?
- Endpoints respond without the tenant header. Problem or not ?

## Improvements
- includes a compliant Module Descriptor --> includes a compliant Module Descriptor Template
- Strikethrough markdown syntax is incorrect
- Will be helpful to know what Apache 2.0 compliant licenses are for third party dependencies. 
  Better to have OSI [approved licenses](https://opensource.org/licenses/alphabetical)
- Analyze third party dependencies
```
 mvn  license:add-third-party
 cat target/generated-sources/license/THIRD-PARTY.txt  | grep -v Apache | grep -v MIT | grep -v Eclipse | grep -v BSD
```
- Run check for outdated dependencies
```
        <plugin>
            <groupId>org.codehaus.mojo</groupId>
            <artifactId>versions-maven-plugin</artifactId>
            <version>2.7</version>
            <configuration>
                <excludes>
                    <exclude>org.apache.commons:commons-collections4</exclude>
                </excludes>
            </configuration>
        </plugin>
```
- Run OWASP dependency Check maven plugin
```
  mvn verify -DskipTests
```
```
           <plugin>
              <groupId>org.owasp</groupId>
              <artifactId>dependency-check-maven</artifactId>
              <version>7.4.1</version>
              <executions>
                  <execution>
                      <goals>
                          <goal>check</goal>
                      </goals>
                  </execution>
              </executions>
            </plugin>
```
